[doc] Document data structure organization (#995)
taichi-dev/taichi: docs/internal.rst

Use ``ti.init(print_ir=True)`` to print IR on the console.

Data Structure Node Organization
--------------------------------

The internal organization of data structure nodes can be confusing.
It is important to distinguish the concept of **containers**, **cells** and **components**.

> - A **container** can have multiple **cells**. The numbers of **cells** are recommended to be powers of two.
> - A **cell** can have multiple **components**.
> - Each **component** is a **container** of a lower-level SNode.

Reviewer: Could you say:
```suggestion
1. A **container** have multiple **cells**.

2. A **cell** have multiple **components**.

For example:

.. code-block :: python

    blk1 = ti.root                    # blk1 is a cell
    blk1.place(x, y)                 # x, y are components of blk1
    blk2 = blk1.dense(ti.i, 3)  # blk2 is a compoment of blk1

3. Each **component** is a **container** of a lower-level SNode.

.. note ::

     The numbers of **cells** are recommended to be powers of two.
```
and add @k-ye's picture in his slides?

Author: Thanks for the inputs, but `blk1` is a container/SNode instead of a cell...

Reviewer: I get more puzzled... so we have 4 concepts: SNode, cell, components, container. Could you shrink down to 2 concepts? I guess most of them are the same, like components = container.

Reviewer 2: IIUC, component and container are two perspectives of the same thing.

* A cell can contain multiple components, because we can attach multiple children SNodes to the same parent SNode.
* Each SNode itself is a container of multiple cells.

If you haven't, I would strongly suggest to read on the Taichi paper, particularly Section 3.2. Once you follow through those examples, things should be much more obvious.

Reviewer: Reopened? I'm still puzzled with the multiple terms here.
Can we add an image here? Like the one in legacy taichi.

> - Each **component** is a **container** of a lower-level SNode.

Reviewer 2: Each component is either a container, or a primitive type element (e.g. `f32`)?

Consider the following example:

.. code-block:: python

    # misc/listgen_demo.py

    x = ti.var(ti.i32)
    y = ti.var(ti.i32)
    z = ti.var(ti.i32)

    S0 = ti.root
    S1 = S0.pointer(ti.i, 4)

    S2 = S1.dense(ti.i, 8)
    S2.place(x, y) # S3: y; S4: z

    S5 = S1.dense(ti.i, 8)
    S5.place(z) # S6: z

- The whole data structure is a ``S0root`` **container**, containing

>   - ``1x`` ``S0root`` **cell**, each has only one **component**, which is

Reviewer 2: For the type name of cells, do you think it's more obvious if we append `_ch`, e.g. `S0root_ch`? I think this is the actual struct name on the backends?

Author: I actually feel a little reluctant here to use `_ch` because it reminds people of **children**, which is ambiguous since it can either be a `cell` of a `container`, or an SNode children of another SNode...

Once we reach a consensus on the names, I'll refactor the struct compilers.

    - A ``S1pointer`` **container**, containing

      - 4x ``S1pointer`` **cells**, each with two **components**, which are

        - A ``S2dense`` **container**, containing

          - 8x ``S2dense`` **cells**, each with two **components**, which are

            - ``x: ti.i32``
            - ``y: ti.i32``

        - A ``S5dense`` **container**, containing

          - 8x ``S5dense`` **cells**, each with one **component**, which is

            - ``z: ti.i32``

> 

Reviewer 2: Personally I find it also useful to know the total number of each cells from root:

* For `S1`, this should be 1x4 = 4 cells
* For `S2`, this should be 1x4x8 = 32 cells

This is very obvious, but still, there are places where we need to distinguish between #cells / component and total #cells...

Each SNode has two types (as implemented in struct compilers): ``container`` type and ``cell`` type.
Note that **cells** are never exposed to end-users.

> **Components** of a higher level SNode **cells** are **containers** of a lower level SNode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Components** of a higher level SNode **cell** are **containers** of a lower level SNode.
```

    ti.init(print_ir=True)

    x = ti.var(ti.i32)

    S0 = ti.root
    S1 = S0.dense(ti.i, 4)
    S2 = S1.bitmasked(ti.i, 4)

>     S2.place(x)

Reviewer: Can you add some comments to clarify who's cell, who's compoment?

Author: Actually, they are all SNodes.

Reviewer: Then, what these SNodes represents? Please don't be too strict on this, or it's hard to understand for newcomers. We know that PRs should be small, the same to concepts.
